
Modern operating systems have a side-channel: Presence of interrupts.

Consider the following scenario.

* p1 is a process that issues a disk read request, does something
  computationally heavy upon being notified that block is in memory,
  and repeats (requesting something else etc.).

* p2 is a process that just spams outputs to a host, attacker.com.

Suppose that the presence, pattern, or size, of disk read requests, is
confidential; it may depend on data on disk.

Effectively, p1 I/O is High, p2 I/O is Low. Both are noninterfering.

Then attacker.com may obtain information about data on disk, since,
when the disk triggers an interrupt upon completing the DMA of data
from disk to memory, p1 gets to run, meaning p2 gets less CPU time,
meaning there will be a stagger in p2's output.

Despite p1 and p2 being noninterfering, the OS introduces a timing
leak from p1 to p2. We desire an OS that does not leak.

We believe securing this channel is an important starting point
towards building an operating system free of timing leaks.

Scheduling p1 and p2 round-robin is an important first-step towards a
solution. However, it is insufficient; currently running code still
gets interrupted.

Why problem exists: control is hijacked by the interrupt controller
(IC) whenever the IC desires it (i.e. it gets signal from device). As
a result, the OS cannot control which part of the computer system has
control, and thus cannot enforce timing sensitive noninterference.

Our solution is to hand this control back to the OS, so the OS can
carefully handle where control goes, and thus enforce a property.

We do this by, (in addition to scheduling p1 and p2 round-robin,)
controlling when the OS can be interrupted. We call this added control
"the mitigator" (for lack of a better name at the moment).

The idea is to disable interrupts while processes are running, such
that only the timer interrupt (which comes in at a configurable, fixed
rate, e.g. 100 or 1000 times per second) can interrupt the OS. The
timer interrupt is important since we want preemptive multitasking.

When a timer interrupt comes in, we take control from the running
process, enable all interrupts, receive & queue pending interrupts,
let the OS handle them, disable interrupts again (save the timer
interrupt), and finally schedule the next process.

This is viable since CPUs operate in the GHz range and the IC operates
in the KHz range, meaning the CPU has some time between interrupts in
general (and plenty of time between timing interrupts in particular).

To present the problem & viability of our solution, we will

* create a simple model of an OS (that has presence-of-interrupt leak)
* create a simple model of a mitigator
* prove that OS in mitigator is timing-sensitive noninterfering
  (assuming processes are).

Later, we will demonstrate this approach by, instead of modifying an
actual OS or wrapping it in a mitigator, do what the mitigator does by
disabling and enabling interrupts in the IC. (our mitigator is,
effectively, a formal model of part of the IC that we need to reason
about to prove noninterference).

We can then run benchmarks or experiments to show that the timing leak
is reduced or eliminated.
