awareness: Distinguishability should not be included here, agree?


swi_NI has multiple use of bool structure and it is not clear what the distinguishability is

In conclusion, input structure is eqpair_LR for bool * I. If no disinguishability for bool, eqpair_LR corresponds to eqpair



handler signal er fint hvis det er lavt, bliver nemlig ikke brugt til scheduling




New thoughts about project:

Big picture modeling of scheduling has at least two options:
    (1) Handler modeled as separate process
    (2) Handler implemented as part of the scheduler

Responsibility of handler is to receive hardware interrupts and forward a signal to a high process

(1) Causes a problem. Configuration is (L | H | handler) which is problematic for secret input (None, None, DiskInterrupt). Input to the handler changes the state which controls its output. It goes from outputing Nothing, to outputting Notify, afterwhich the state clears and it returns to outputting Nothing. This output is both sent out of the process, meaning it will be part of a trace derivation. It is also rerouted as input to H. Rerouting creates no problems and it motivates the use of the handler so this part is good. But sending out the actual output is bad. Depending on whether we received a secret input (tuple from before), the output of the process pool will change. Two options exists to address this. (A) Kill the output of the handler, so that is routed but not a part of the trace. (B) Relax the equivalence relation for handler signals (Nothing, Notify).

(2) One can argue that this is a more accurate implementation of the interrupt handler, since it performs its executinon in the time slice of the interrupted user space process. However linux uses two levels of interrupts. The fast one that steals the current time slice and a slow one that is scheduled for later. As this project is described, we are focusing on interrupts that take control of the running program, preventing a public signal from being broadcasted with a fixed frequency. Therefore we can make do with focusing only on the fast interrupts.
    Implementing the handler as part of the scheduler avoids needing to "kill" the output to skip the counterexample. It is also more natural, since the sole purpose of the handler is to transform hardware interrupts to signals.
