TODOs:

- Write newtraceFd: It will be the spec for the bad process

- (done) Write a simple trace for bad process: It will be used later for deriving counter example

- Should trace for counter example be the exposed trace or what the world sees?

- Derive counter example for bad process

- Prove NI for good process





Notes:
The good scheduler
(*Our scheduler also handles the jump to the handler even though this is implemented in hardware on a cpu*)

We need to allow multiple outputs in tuple because state it localised to scheduler. Other processes, say public process, does not know when to turn off.






Design thoughts:

Handler runs one step and then gives control to scheduler.
We need to relinquish control BEFORE the next timer interrupt, so we have no input event to anchor onto. Therefore it is the atomic step, which could be generalised to n steps


We buffer interrupts in the following way
Good scheduler, timer interrupt buffered to NEXT output (prevents multiple entries in tuple), disk interrupt non buffered (index is independent of event)
Bad scheduler, timer interrupt and disk interrupt buffered to NEXT output

UPDATE:
We will ditch the buffering, because it requires state that will be used to compute the flag for swi, and the sta_NI theorem has NI (eqpair_R VRel IRel) ORel p, which means that output needs to be ORel invariant when exchanging secret VRel, which is the state recording if an interrupt has been received. This will likely cause the same issue as before


Having the scheduler run at the same time as the running processes seems okay (NI case), but doing the same for the handler seems too unrealistic. Ideally we want to do as the cph cycle, we have a line that records interrupts received and it is checked after each output. The problem is this line is state, thus we must use sta. Subprocess of sta will use swi on public process. We run into sta requiring premise of eqpair_R. swi requiring conclusion of eqpair_LR. We can reach this conclusion shape if state is private. Combination of private state and public output means that public processes is neither aware nor oblivious.
Three ways forward:
1) find a way without outer sta inner swi
The IC line is inherently stateful and being unable to model this is a significant limitation. If we go with the multiple entries in tuples approach, we will have to argue for it, revealing this limitation. Better to solve it now, than argue a losing cause in the paper later.

2) find a way to reach conclusion with public state
Requires input to be public which disk interrupts are not. 
3) prove a different sta or swi theorem





Thoughts on modeling pc as tupled output
Execution of different processes is naturally disjoint with pc, but has to be inforced when modeling output trace as tuples
Ensuring only one active entry in each tuple requires state outside the process pool.
Initially I tried to avoid this for two reasons: 1) to encapsulate state within the scheduler 2) the theorem limitations described above
Now I think 1) can be discarded because this state is used to know which process to turn off. The intentional act of turning off a process is a consequence of modeling with tuples, while it in real system happens indirectly as a consequence of pc jumping.
Only point 2) remains.

If we introduce this state, do we still need to model the interrupt check at the end of a cpu cycle. That is, do we need to maintain both the state of running processes as well incoming interrupts?
It would be most accurate to do so. The difference is what happens when an interrupt is received. Does the rescheduling happen before or after the next output. Ideally it should happen after, this means that we are modeling multiple things correctly. We are persisting the interrupt via state, starting the handler is based on checking state, and this check is performed at the end of an output, corresponding to the end of a cpu cycle. From an information flow perspective it is also relevant whether we opt for event driven or state driven context switching.

This means we need state on currently running processes (public) and incoming interrupts (partially private).
The latter seems to be straightforward. Mark all interrupts as distinguished, depending on what is received we cannot distinguish it on public output anyway.
Running processes however is an issue. It cannot be marked private because exchanging it for something else can turn on/off the public process whose output we can distinugish.


Okay longer rant on state and public out. It seems incompatible to have both public state, private input and public output. If we forget about the interrupt flag and consider only the state of currently running process. In a NI scheduler, this does not depend on private input and state can therefore remain public. But the NI theorem for sta requires that if the process has any distinugished input, then pairing such an input with any state value must not change output beyond what ORel can relate. 

It seems like it is possible to change the sta theorem. We need to ensure that the state update based on input does not touch private parts of the input. We plan on recording the  output of the scheduler which is public, so there is a projection. It's like we are saying if we change the private parts of the input then the function behaves the same. This may look like a detour but it is important for modeling the state and can be an argument for what else came up from the mechanisation.
Brings us back to the need for mechanising the admitted theorems.

So steps ahead:
prove one of the admitted NI theorems as warm up
prove the new relaxed NI theorem for sta
Write the good and bad models along with their traces
Show bad model interfers and good model does not.
